Introduction to call()

In JavaScript, call(), apply(), and bind() are three related methods used to manage function context.
While modern frameworks like React have reduced their daily use, they remain essential for understanding JavaScript's internal behavior and are common topics in technical interviews.

Execution Context and this

Whenever a function runs, it creates its own Execution Context inside the Call Stack.
Every Execution Context contains its own memory, scope information, and a specific value for the this keyword.
By default, in a browser, this refers to the Window object, while in Node.js, it refers to an empty object {}.

The Problem: Losing Context

When one function calls another helper function (like a function to set a username), the helper function creates its own new execution context.
In this new context, the helper function's this no longer points to the original object being created; it points back to the global object (window or {}).
As a result, any changes or variables set by the helper function are applied to the wrong place, and the original object remains incomplete.

The Solution: Using call()

The call() method allows you to explicitly decide what the this keyword should refer to.
By using .call(this, ...args), you are telling JavaScript: "Execute this function, but don't use your own this. Use the this context I am providing to you".
This ensures that the helper function modifies the correct object properties instead of the global object.
 
Syntax and Usage

Syntax: functionName.call(thisArg, arg1, arg2, ...).
The First Argument: The first parameter passed to call() is always the object you want to use as the this context.
Immediate Execution: Unlike bind(), which creates a copy of the function for later use, call() invokes the function immediately.

Key Interview Takeaways

Every function call creates a new execution context with its own this.
Calling a function normally does not make it inherit the caller's context.
call() is used to "borrow" methods or ensure a function operates on the correct data by passing the desired object as the first argument.